---
title: "Configuration"
excerpt: ""
---
`nodeos` can be configured using either the command line interface (CLI) options or a configuration file, `config.ini`. All the CLI options can be found by running `$ nodeos --help`.

Each CLI option maps to a setting in `config.ini`, for example `--plugin eosio::chain_api_plugin` can be set by adding `plugin = eosio::chain_api_plugin` to `config.ini`.

The path to your desired `config.ini` file is set by executing `$ nodeos --config path/to/config.ini`.
[block:api-header]
{
  "title": "Configuration File Location"
}
[/block]
`config.ini` is found at the following locations:
- Mac OS: `~/Library/Application Support/eosio/nodeos/config`
- Linux: `~/.local/share/eosio/nodeos/config`
[block:api-header]
{
  "title": "Default Configuration File"
}
[/block]
Below is a `config.ini` file with default values:
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "# Track only transactions whose scopes involve the listed accounts. Default is to track all transactions. (eosio::account_history_plugin)\n# filter_on_accounts = \n\n# Limits the maximum time (in milliseconds) processing a single get_transactions call. (eosio::account_history_plugin)\nget-transactions-time-limit = 3\n\n# File to read Genesis State from (eosio::chain_plugin)\ngenesis-json = \"genesis.json\"\n\n# override the initial timestamp in the Genesis State file (eosio::chain_plugin)\n# genesis-timestamp = \n\n# the location of the block log (absolute path or relative to application data dir) (eosio::chain_plugin)\nblock-log-dir = \"blocks\"\n\n# Pairs of [BLOCK_NUM,BLOCK_ID] that should be enforced as checkpoints. (eosio::chain_plugin)\n# checkpoint = \n\n# Limits the maximum time (in milliseconds) that a reversible block is allowed to run before being considered invalid (eosio::chain_plugin)\nmax-reversible-block-time = -1\n\n# Limits the maximum time (in milliseconds) that is allowed a pushed transaction's code to execute before being considered invalid (eosio::chain_plugin)\nmax-pending-transaction-time = -1\n\n# Limits the maximum time (in milliseconds) that is allowed a to push deferred transactions at the start of a block (eosio::chain_plugin)\nmax-deferred-transaction-time = 20\n\n# Override default WASM runtime (eosio::chain_plugin)\n# wasm-runtime = \n\n# Time to wait, in milliseconds, between creating next faucet created account. (eosio::faucet_testnet_plugin)\nfaucet-create-interval-ms = 1000\n\n# Name to use as creator for faucet created accounts. (eosio::faucet_testnet_plugin)\nfaucet-name = faucet\n\n# [public key, WIF private key] for signing for faucet creator account (eosio::faucet_testnet_plugin)\nfaucet-private-key = [\"EOS6MRyAjQq8ud7hVNYcfnVPJqcVpscN5So8BhtHuGYqET5GDW5CV\",\"5KQwrPbwdL6PhXujxW37FSSQZ1JiwsST4cqQzDeyXtP79zkvFD3\"]\n\n# The local IP and port to listen for incoming http connections. (eosio::http_plugin)\nhttp-server-address = 127.0.0.1:8888\n\n# Specify the Access-Control-Allow-Origin to be returned on each request. (eosio::http_plugin)\n# access-control-allow-origin = \n\n# Specify the Access-Control-Allow-Headers to be returned on each request. (eosio::http_plugin)\n# access-control-allow-headers = \n\n# Specify if Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true should be returned on each request. (eosio::http_plugin)\naccess-control-allow-credentials = false\n\n# The queue size between nodeos and MongoDB plugin thread. (eosio::mongo_db_plugin)\nmongodb-queue-size = 256\n\n# MongoDB URI connection string, see: https://docs.mongodb.com/master/reference/connection-string/. If not specified then plugin is disabled. Default database 'EOS' is used if not specified in URI. (eosio::mongo_db_plugin)\n# mongodb-uri = \n\n# The actual host:port used to listen for incoming p2p connections. (eosio::net_plugin)\np2p-listen-endpoint = 0.0.0.0:9876\n\n# An externally accessible host:port for identifying this node. Defaults to p2p-listen-endpoint. (eosio::net_plugin)\n# p2p-server-address = \n\n# The public endpoint of a peer node to connect to. Use multiple p2p-peer-address options as needed to compose a network. (eosio::net_plugin)\n# p2p-peer-address = \n\n# The name supplied to identify this node amongst the peers. (eosio::net_plugin)\nagent-name = \"EOS Test Agent\"\n\n# Can be 'any' or 'producers' or 'specified' or 'none'. If 'specified', peer-key must be specified at least once. If only 'producers', peer-key is not required. 'producers' and 'specified' may be combined. (eosio::net_plugin)\nallowed-connection = any\n\n# Optional public key of peer allowed to connect.  May be used multiple times. (eosio::net_plugin)\n# peer-key = \n\n# Tuple of [PublicKey, WIF private key] (may specify multiple times) (eosio::net_plugin)\n# peer-private-key = \n\n# Log level: one of 'all', 'debug', 'info', 'warn', 'error', or 'off' (eosio::net_plugin)\nlog-level-net-plugin = info\n\n# Maximum number of clients from which connections are accepted, use 0 for no limit (eosio::net_plugin)\nmax-clients = 25\n\n# number of seconds to wait before cleaning up dead connections (eosio::net_plugin)\nconnection-cleanup-period = 30\n\n# True to require exact match of peer network version. (eosio::net_plugin)\nnetwork-version-match = 0\n\n# number of blocks to retrieve in a chunk from any individual peer during synchronization (eosio::net_plugin)\nsync-fetch-span = 100\n\n# Enable block production, even if the chain is stale. (eosio::producer_plugin)\nenable-stale-production = false\n\n# Percent of producers (0-100) that must be participating in order to produce blocks (eosio::producer_plugin)\nrequired-participation = 33\n\n# ID of producer controlled by this node (e.g. inita; may specify multiple times) (eosio::producer_plugin)\n# producer-name = \n\n# Tuple of [public key, WIF private key] (may specify multiple times) (eosio::producer_plugin)\nprivate-key = [\"EOS6MRyAjQq8ud7hVNYcfnVPJqcVpscN5So8BhtHuGYqET5GDW5CV\",\"5KQwrPbwdL6PhXujxW37FSSQZ1JiwsST4cqQzDeyXtP79zkvFD3\"]\n\n# The path of the wallet files (absolute path or relative to application data dir) (eosio::wallet_plugin)\nwallet-dir = \".\"\n\n# Timeout for unlocked wallet in seconds. Wallets will automatically lock after specified number of seconds of inactivity. Activity is defined as any wallet command e.g. list-wallets. (eosio::wallet_plugin)\n# unlock-timeout = \n\n# eosio key that will be imported automatically when a wallet is created. (eosio::wallet_plugin)\n# eosio-key = \n\n# Plugin(s) to enable, may be specified multiple times\n# plugin = ",
      "language": "text",
      "name": "config.ini"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]

[block:api-header]
{
  "title": "Command Line Interface Options"
}
[/block]
Below is the complete list of CLI options:
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "Application Options:\n\nConfig Options for eosio::account_history_plugin:\n  -f [ --filter_on_accounts ] arg       Track only transactions whose scopes \n                                        involve the listed accounts. Default is\n                                        to track all transactions.\n  --get-transactions-time-limit arg (=3)\n                                        Limits the maximum time (in \n                                        milliseconds) processing a single \n                                        get_transactions call.\n\nConfig Options for eosio::chain_plugin:\n  --genesis-json arg (=\"genesis.json\")  File to read Genesis State from\n  --genesis-timestamp arg               override the initial timestamp in the \n                                        Genesis State file\n  --block-log-dir arg (=\"blocks\")       the location of the block log (absolute\n                                        path or relative to application data \n                                        dir)\n  -c [ --checkpoint ] arg               Pairs of [BLOCK_NUM,BLOCK_ID] that \n                                        should be enforced as checkpoints.\n  --max-reversible-block-time arg (=-1) Limits the maximum time (in \n                                        milliseconds) that a reversible block \n                                        is allowed to run before being \n                                        considered invalid\n  --max-pending-transaction-time arg (=-1)\n                                        Limits the maximum time (in \n                                        milliseconds) that is allowed a pushed \n                                        transaction's code to execute before \n                                        being considered invalid\n  --max-deferred-transaction-time arg (=20)\n                                        Limits the maximum time (in \n                                        milliseconds) that is allowed a to push\n                                        deferred transactions at the start of a\n                                        block\n  --wasm-runtime wavm/binaryen          Override default WASM runtime\n  --shared-memory-size-mb arg (=32768)  Maximum size MB of database shared \n                                        memory file\n  --contracts-console                   Print contract's output to console\n\nCommand Line Options for eosio::chain_plugin:\n  --replay-blockchain                   clear chain database and replay all \n                                        blocks\n  --resync-blockchain                   clear chain database and block log\n  --skip-transaction-signatures         Disable transaction signature \n                                        verification. ONLY for TESTING.\n\nConfig Options for eosio::faucet_testnet_plugin:\n  --faucet-create-interval-ms arg (=1000)\n                                        Time to wait, in milliseconds, between \n                                        creating next faucet created account.\n  --faucet-name arg (=faucet)           Name to use as creator for faucet \n                                        created accounts.\n  --faucet-private-key arg (=[\"EOS6MRyAjQq8ud7hVNYcfnVPJqcVpscN5So8BhtHuGYqET5GDW5CV\",\"5KQwrPbwdL6PhXujxW37FSSQZ1JiwsST4cqQzDeyXtP79zkvFD3\"])\n                                        [public key, WIF private key] for \n                                        signing for faucet creator account\n\nConfig Options for eosio::http_plugin:\n  --http-server-address arg (=127.0.0.1:8888)\n                                        The local IP and port to listen for \n                                        incoming http connections; set blank to\n                                        disable.\n  --https-server-address arg            The local IP and port to listen for \n                                        incoming https connections; leave blank\n                                        to disable.\n  --https-certificate-chain-file arg    Filename with the certificate chain to \n                                        present on https connections. PEM \n                                        format. Required for https.\n  --https-private-key-file arg          Filename with https private key in PEM \n                                        format. Required for https\n  --access-control-allow-origin arg     Specify the Access-Control-Allow-Origin\n                                        to be returned on each request.\n  --access-control-allow-headers arg    Specify the Access-Control-Allow-Header\n                                        s to be returned on each request.\n  --access-control-allow-credentials    Specify if Access-Control-Allow-Credent\n                                        ials: true should be returned on each \n                                        request.\n\nConfig Options for eosio::mongo_db_plugin:\n  -q [ --mongodb-queue-size ] arg (=256)\n                                        The queue size between nodeos and \n                                        MongoDB plugin thread.\n  -m [ --mongodb-uri ] arg              MongoDB URI connection string, see: \n                                        https://docs.mongodb.com/master/referen\n                                        ce/connection-string/. If not specified\n                                        then plugin is disabled. Default \n                                        database 'EOS' is used if not specified\n                                        in URI.\n\nConfig Options for eosio::net_plugin:\n  --p2p-listen-endpoint arg (=0.0.0.0:9876)\n                                        The actual host:port used to listen for\n                                        incoming p2p connections.\n  --p2p-server-address arg              An externally accessible host:port for \n                                        identifying this node. Defaults to \n                                        p2p-listen-endpoint.\n  --p2p-peer-address arg                The public endpoint of a peer node to \n                                        connect to. Use multiple \n                                        p2p-peer-address options as needed to \n                                        compose a network.\n  --agent-name arg (=\"EOS Test Agent\")  The name supplied to identify this node\n                                        amongst the peers.\n  --allowed-connection arg (=any)       Can be 'any' or 'producers' or \n                                        'specified' or 'none'. If 'specified', \n                                        peer-key must be specified at least \n                                        once. If only 'producers', peer-key is \n                                        not required. 'producers' and \n                                        'specified' may be combined.\n  --peer-key arg                        Optional public key of peer allowed to \n                                        connect.  May be used multiple times.\n  --peer-private-key arg                Tuple of [PublicKey, WIF private key] \n                                        (may specify multiple times)\n  --max-clients arg (=25)               Maximum number of clients from which \n                                        connections are accepted, use 0 for no \n                                        limit\n  --connection-cleanup-period arg (=30) number of seconds to wait before \n                                        cleaning up dead connections\n  --network-version-match arg (=0)      True to require exact match of peer \n                                        network version.\n  --sync-fetch-span arg (=100)          number of blocks to retrieve in a chunk\n                                        from any individual peer during \n                                        synchronization\n  --max-implicit-request arg (=1500)    maximum sizes of transaction or block \n                                        messages that are sent without first \n                                        sending a notice\n\nConfig Options for eosio::producer_plugin:\n\n  -e [ --enable-stale-production ]      Enable block production, even if the \n                                        chain is stale.\n  --required-participation arg (=33)    Percent of producers (0-100) that must \n                                        be participating in order to produce \n                                        blocks\n  -p [ --producer-name ] arg            ID of producer controlled by this node \n                                        (e.g. inita; may specify multiple \n                                        times)\n  --private-key arg (=[\"EOS6MRyAjQq8ud7hVNYcfnVPJqcVpscN5So8BhtHuGYqET5GDW5CV\",\"5KQwrPbwdL6PhXujxW37FSSQZ1JiwsST4cqQzDeyXtP79zkvFD3\"])\n                                        Tuple of [public key, WIF private key] \n                                        (may specify multiple times)\n\nConfig Options for eosio::txn_test_gen_plugin:\n  --txn-reference-block-lag arg (=0)    Lag in number of blocks from the head \n                                        block when selecting the reference \n                                        block for transactions (-1 means Last \n                                        Irreversible Block)\n\nConfig Options for eosio::wallet_plugin:\n  --wallet-dir arg (=\".\")               The path of the wallet files (absolute \n                                        path or relative to application data \n                                        dir)\n  --unlock-timeout arg                  Timeout for unlocked wallet in seconds.\n                                        Wallets will automatically lock after \n                                        specified number of seconds of \n                                        inactivity. Activity is defined as any \n                                        wallet command e.g. list-wallets.\n  --eosio-key arg                       eosio key that will be imported \n                                        automatically when a wallet is created.\n\nApplication Config Options:\n  --plugin arg                          Plugin(s) to enable, may be specified \n                                        multiple times\n\nApplication Command Line Options:\n  -h [ --help ]                         Print this help message and exit.\n  -v [ --version ]                      Print version information.\n  --print-default-config                Print default configuration template\n  -d [ --data-dir ] arg                 Directory containing program runtime \n                                        data\n  --config-dir arg                      Directory containing configuration \n                                        files such as config.ini\n  -c [ --config ] arg (=config.ini)     Configuration file name relative to \n                                        config-dir\n  -l [ --logconf ] arg (=logging.json)  Logging configuration file name/path \n                                        for library users",
      "language": "text",
      "name": "CLI Options"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]